= dsck

== What's this?

Simple disk space checker

== System requirement

* ruby (1.8+)
* can execute "df -k"

== Install

 gem install dsck

== Support scripts

* dsck2mail - sample shell wrapper script for crontab.

== Usage

See "rd2 dsck" or "dsck -h" for details.

 dsck [-Vhv] [-c config | global_threshold | /mount/point threshold]...

=== Options

[-V, +--version+] Show version
[-h, +--help+] Show this message
[-v, +--verbose+] Verbose output. Multiple -v to increase verbosity
[-q, +--quiet+] Quiet output. Multiple -q to decrease verbosity
[-s, +--summary+] Show summary report
[-r, +--report+] Show detail report
[-e, +--errors-only+] Suppress "-r" and "-s" when nothing to alert  
[-c _conf_, +--config=+_conf_] Specify config file (arguments prevail over config)

If both of "-s" or "-r" are not specified, fallback to "-se".

=== Threshold Format

If argument is matched regex "/[0-9]+\[%BKMGT]?/" or
"nocheck", it's considerd as threshold.

Suffix character was consider as *B*=byte, *K*=KiloByte, *M*=Megabyte,
*G*=GigaByte, *T*=TeraByte, *P*=PetaByte and %=Percent.

When string has no suffix character, longer than *3* will
be treated as *KiloByte*, if not as *percent*.

This script alert when use% is *over* threshold of percentage or
filesystem available size is *under* threshold of Byte and blocks.

=== ConfigFile Format

Same as command line arguments.

Especially, after "#" until end-of-line is considerd as comment.

=== Example

  dsck -serv "95%" / 50M /tmp 5 /var/spool/squid nocheck

This means
* Verbose output (+1)
* Show summary and detail when error happened
* Global threshold is 95%, "/" is 50MByte, "/tmp" is 5%
* "/var/spool/squid" will not be checked
